				Should AI be adopted into finance?
The main idea of this article is to challenge a statement in the AI100 report about AI’s important advances under the SQ2 section(Littman, 2021). More specifically, the use of AI in the finance field will be challenged in this article. 

According to the report, it stated that “AI has been increasingly adopted into finance”(Littman, 2021, p.17). However, in my opinion, AI should not be largely adopted into finance. Like professor Zhu said, AI is changing and affecting our daily lives and finance is one of them. Finance field is full of uncertainties and human factors, so why do we use AI in such a complicated and likely unpredictable field?

According to Lewinson’s article, one of the challenges of AI in finance is biased data and “a single declined loan application can change a person’s life”(Lewinson, 2021). In the AI100 report, it gives an example of AI’s advances in finance: transformed payments with credit scoring. However, the problem comes out. AI makes decisions based on the collected data and algorithms. What if a person has tax evasions in the last two years and the database only contains the data from the last two years? This person will be indicated as a person with 100% tax evasion rate and will have difficulty making a loan. The biased data is harmful to AI for credit scoring. 
	
Beside the problem of biased data, the algorithms of AI on calculating the credits is also an issue. According to Klein’s paper, research on applying for credit to complete an online purchase on Wayfair is showing the simplicity of AI’s decision on who to loan and the rate of it(Klein, 2019). By viewing those five factors, it is clear that trustworthiness of the AI calculation should be challenged. One of the factors is the type of operating system the PC is. Based on the research, it is found that Mac users generally have better credit scores than Windows users. However, there is no evidence or law to tell AI should favor the Mac users. From this point of view, AI is not suitable for finance due to its biased algorithms.

Another reason that AI should not be considered to adopt into finance is AI’s instability of fraud detection. According to Mejia’s article, the false positives of AI fraud detection commonly exist with a rate that is not quite low. In the paper, it also said, “DataVisor claims that their software was able to uncover 30% more fraud at an accuracy rate of 90%”(Mejia, 2020). The company usually gives a percentage of the correctness of AI doing on detection instead of giving actual amount. In other words, they try to hide the fact that AI is not doing so well on fraud detection. The merchant might lose more if they use such immature technology.

In conclusion, I believe the above three reasons give enough evidence to support that AI should not be adopted into finance. 
